Hi, everybody.
As President, my top
priority is rebuilding
an economy where everybody
who works hard
has the chance to get ahead.
That's what I'll spend
some time talking about
on Monday, at the White
House Summit
on Working Families.
We're bringing together
business leaders
and workers to talk about the
challenges that working
parents face every day,
and how we can address them together.
Take paid family leave.
Many jobs don't offer
adequate leave to care
for a new baby or an ailing
parent, so workers can't
afford to be there when
their family
needs them the most.
That's wrong.
And it puts us way
behind the times.
Only three countries in
the world report
that they don't offer paid
maternity leave.
Three.
And the United States
is one of them.
It's time to change that.
A few states have acted on
their own to give workers
paid family leave, but
this should be available
to everyone, because all
Americans should
be able to afford to care for a
family member in need.
Childcare is
another challenge.
Most working families
I know can't afford
thousands a year for
childcare, but often
that's what it costs.
That leaves parents
scrambling just
to make sure their kids are safe
while they're at work --
forget about giving them
the high-quality
early childhood education that
helps kids
succeed in life.
Then there's the issue of
flexibility --
the ability to take a few hours
off for a parent-teacher
conference or to work from
home when
your kid is sick.
Most workers want it, but
not enough
of them have it.
What's more, it not only
makes workers happier --
studies show that
flexibility can make
workers more productive
and reduce worker turnover
and absenteeism.
That's good for business.
At a time when women make
up about half of America's
workforce, outdated
workplace policies
that make it harder for mothers
to work hold
our entire economy back.
But these aren't just
problems for women.
Men also care about who's
watching their kids.
They're rearranging their
schedules to make
it to soccer games and
school plays.
Lots of sons help care
for aging parents.
And plenty of fathers
would love to be home
for their new baby's first
weeks in the world.
In fact, in a new study,
nearly half of all parents
- women and men - report
that they've said
no to a job, not because they
didn't want it,
but because it would be too
hard on their families.
When that many talented,
hard-working people
are forced to choose between
work and family, something's wrong.
Other countries are making
it easier for people
to have both.
We should too, if we want
American businesses
to compete and win in
the global economy.
Family leave.
Childcare.
Flexibility.
These aren't frills --
they're basic needs.
They shouldn't be bonuses
-- they should
be the bottom line.
The good news is, some
businesses are embracing
family-friendly policies,
because they know
it's key to attracting and
retaining
talented employees.
And I'm going to keep
highlighting
the businesses that do.
Because I take
this personally.
I take it personally as
the son and grandson
of some strong women who
worked hard to support
my sister and me.
As the husband of a
brilliant woman
who struggled to balance work
and raising our girls
when my job
often kept me away.
And as the father of two
beautiful girls,
whom I want to be there for as
much as I possibly can
-- and whom I hope will be
able to have families
and careers of their
own one day.
We know from our history
that our economy grows
best from the middle-out;
that our country does
better when everybody
participates; when everyone's talents are put
to use; when we all have a fair shot.
That's the America
I believe in.
That's the America I'll
keep fighting
for every day.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.